.TH GTTLVUNDUMP 1
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBgttlvundump\fR - A tool for constructing TLV file from human-readable input (see \fIgttlvdump\fR(1)).
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgttlvundump [-h][-v][\fIfile\fB]\fR
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgttlvundump\fR is a tool that constructs a binary TLV file from input in human-readable format defined by \fBgttlvdump\fR. If input file is not specified, input is read from \fIstdin\fR. When multiple input files are specified, the result is concatenated starting from the first (left-most) file. It must be noted that only default output format of \fBgttlvdump\fR is accepted as input. The output is written to the \fIstdout\fR.
.LP
It is possible to use functions for composing TLV files. For detailed description of supported functions see \fBFUNCTIONS\fR section. To use a function it has to be preceded by '\fB$\fR' sign, i.e. \fB$FUNC\fR(\fIarg\fR). Function arguments are delimited with '\fB|\fR' sign.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Print help text.
.\"
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Print TLV utility version.
.\"
.SH FUNCTIONS
.TP
\fBHMAC(\fIversion\fR|\fIalgorithm\fR|\fIkey\fR|\fIpattern\fB)\fR
Compute HMAC value on a set of TLV elements.
.\"
.RS
.TP
\fIversion\fR
HMAC computation version. Valid versions:
.br
\fIv1\fR - computation is performed for each TLV element over the concatenation of their header and value.
.br
\fIv2\fR - computation is performed for the whole set of TLV elements over the TLV set header, each TLV element header and value in the order in which they appear within the TLV file, and the header and the hash function ID of the MAC element itself.
.\"
.TP
\fIalgorithm\fR
Hash algorithm to be used for computation. Use \fB-h\fR to get the list of supported hash algorithms.
.\"
.TP
\fIkey\fR
Secret cryptographic key for computing HMAC.
.\"
.TP
\fIpattern\fR
TLV pattern describing TLVs to be included into computation (valid with \fIv1\fR). Pattern format as defined by \fBgttlvgrep\fR.
.RE
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 2
\fB1
\fRGenerate a TLV file from the given input file and dump the result with \fBgttlvdump\fR:
.LP
.RS 4
File \fItest.tlv\fR contains following TLV structure description.
.LP
TLV[1000]:
  TLV[01]:
    TLV[01]:0a
    TLV[01]:0b
.LP
\fBgttlvundump \fItest.tlv \fR| gttlvdump
.RE
.\"
.TP 2
\fB2
\fRTo concatenate two TLVs described in \fIa.tlvdump\fR and \fIb.tlvdump\fR and print the result in human-readable fromat:
.LP
.RS 4
\fBgttlvundump \fIa.tlv \fIb.tlv \fR| gttlvdump
.RE
.\"
.TP 2
\fB3
\fRTo calculate HMAC value on a set of TLVs:
.LP
.RS 4
1. \fIv1\fR HMAC calculation.
  TLV[0300]:
    TLV[01]:
      TLV[01]:616E6F6E00
    TLV[0301]:
      TLV[01]:01
      TLV[02]:54D9D6E7
      TLV[03]:54D9D6E7
    TLV[1f]:\fI$HMAC(v1|sha256|anon|300.01,301)\fR
.LP
2. \fIv2\fR HMAC calculation.
  TLV[0300]:
    TLV[01]:
      TLV[01]:616E6F6E00
    TLV[0301]:
      TLV[01]:01
      TLV[02]:54D9D6E7
      TLV[03]:54D9D6E7
    TLV[1f]:\fI$HMAC(v2|sha256|anon)\fR
.RE
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Guardtime AS, http://www.guardtime.com/
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgttlvdump\fR(1), \fBgttlvgrep\fR(1), \fBgttlvwrap\fR(1), \fBtlv\fR(5), \fBtlv-desc\fR(5)
