.TH GTTLVWRAP 1
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBgttlvwrap\fR - A tool for generating a TLV by wrapping piece of data with TLV header.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgttlvwrap  [-h] [-v] [options] -t\fR \fItype\fR \fB[-i \fIinput\fB] [-o \fIoutput\fB]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgttlvwrap\fR is a tool for generating TLVs from input data.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Print help text.
.\"
.TP
\fB-t \fItype\fR
TLV type in hex.
.\"
.TP
\fB-N \fR
Set the TLV Non-Critical flag.
.\"
.TP
\fB-F\fR
Set the TLV Forward Unknown flag.
.\"
.TP
\fB-i \fIfile\fR
Input file that is going to be wrapped with TLV header. If not specified data will be read from \fIstdin\fR.
.\"
.TP
\fB-o \fIfile\fR
Output file for generated TLV. If not specified data will be written to \fIstdout\fR.
.\"
.TP
\fB-v\fR
Print TLV utility version.
.\"
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
\fBExit success.\fR Returned if everything is OK.
.\"
.TP
\fB1
\fBExit failure.\fR A general failure occurred.
.\"
.TP
\fB3
\fBInvalid command-line parameter.\fR The content or format of a command-line parameter is invalid or a parameter is missing.
.\"
.TP
\fB4
\fBInvalid format.\fR Input data can not be parsed or data format is invalid.
.\"
.TP
\fB9
\fBInput / output error.\fR Unable to read or write file or stream.
.\"
.TP
\fB13
\fBSystem out of memory.\fR
.\"
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 2
\fB1
\fRTo wrap  string '\fITEST\fR' with TLV header using type 1000 and dump the result with \fBgttlvdump\fR:
.LP
.RS 4
\fBecho \fI"TEST" \fR| \fBgttlvwrap -t \fI1000 \fR| \fB gttlvdump\fR
.RE
.\"
.TP 2
\fB2
\fRTo wrap a file '\fIfile\fR' with TLV header and set the Non-Critical flag:
.LP
.RS 4
\fBgttlvwrap -t \fI1000\fR \fB-N -i \fIfile\fR \fB-o \fIfile.tlv\fR
.RE
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Guardtime AS, http://www.guardtime.com/
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBgttlvdump\fR(1), \fBgttlvgrep\fR(1), \fBgttlvundump\fR(1), \fBtlv\fR(5), \fBtlv-desc\fR(5)
