.TH TLV-DESC 5
.\"
.SH NAME
\fBTLV-DESC\fR - TLV description file.
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
In the TLV description (see \fBtlv\fR(5)) file the known TLV types are described by assigning them human-readable names and format to use when printing their values. TLV description file is used by programs included in \fBgttlvutil\fR package to improve the readability of the output.
.LP
.\"
.SH FORMAT
TLV description file contains TLV descriptions line by line, and each line has the following format:
.LP
.RS 4
<\fIparen type\fR>.<\fIchild type\fR>	<\fIvalue format\fR>	<\fIname\fR>
.RE
.LP
Here the <\fIparent type\fR> and <\fIchild type\fR> specify the types of the parent and child (nested) TLVs, while the description applies to the latter.
.LP
The <\fIvalue format\fR> specifies how the TLV value should be formatted when printed. Known value formats are:
.LP
.IP \(bu 4
\fBRAW\fR - Formatted as octet string.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBINT\fR - Formatted as unsigned integer.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBSTR\fR - Formatted as string.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBIMPRINT\fR - Formatted as hash value imprint (hash algorithm + hash value).
.IP \(bu 4
\fBTIME\fR - Formatted as time (number of seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC).
.IP \(bu 4
\fB*\fR - Formatted as parent of nested TLVs.
.LP
The <\fIname\fR> is a string which indicates the human-readable name for the type of this TLV.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 2
\fB1
\fRExample of a TLV description for parent TLV \fI0x1000\fR that contains nested TLVs:
.LP
.RS 4
\fI1000\fR	\fB*\fR		Parent TLV
.br
\fI1000.01\fR	\fBINT\fR	ID
.br
\fI1000.02\fR	\fBSTRING\fR	Name
.br
\fI1000.03\fR	\fBRAW\fR	Binary data
.br
\fI1000.1100\fR	\fB*\fR		Nested TLV
.br
.LP
\fI1100.01\fR	\fBINT\fR	ID
.br
\fI1100.02\fR	\fBRAW\fR	Binary data
.LP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Guardtime AS, http://www.guardtime.com/
.\"
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBgttlvdump\fR(1), \fBgttlvgrep\fR(1), \fBgttlvundump\fR(1), \fBgttlvwrap\fR(1), \fBtlv\fR(5)
